I cannot emphasize the importance of understanding ownership and permissions when you work on a Linux
server, when you've completed this lecture, if it's necessary, repeat the lecture repeated even for
a third time.
When you work on a server, you will continually be looking at and changing ownership and permissions.
Ownership refers to who owns the file or directory permissions.
Specify what a particular user may or may not do with respect to files or directories.
Ownership and permissions are important because you need to create a secure environment on your server.
Ownership and permissions are one of the most misunderstood concepts when it comes to Linux.
It's also one of the most difficult concepts for especially a Windows user to understand.
When you work on a Windows PC, you can copy and move files and directories without thinking twice.
On a Linux system, things are very different.
You may be wondering why I continually emphasize the importance of understanding ownership and permissions.
I'm going to give you an example before you even consider a security plugin, you need to ensure that
the ownership and permissions of the WordPress files are correct.
Here is a table with the correct ownership and permissions for a few WordPress directories.
At the end of the lecture, I'm going to show you the same table and what you are seeing will make a
lot more sense.
You will, at the end of this lecture, understand what you are looking at.
Look at the slash WP hyphen admin directory owned by your user.
That's ownership writable by your user only.
That is permissions readable by the Web server.
That's a combination of both ownership and permissions.
If we look at WP content owned by your user, that's ownership writable by your user permissions.
It must also be writable by the Web server that is again ownership and permissions.